(TODO: edit details for scientific accuracy. Placeholders for now.)

## 10,000 years ago
### The Moonrock
Thag was quite annoyed. He had been inching across the forest behind the wild aurochs, and had been within hailing distance when suddenly there was a loud BANG from just across the mountain and moments later, a rather disorienting shaking of the ground. The sky near the mountain had lit up momentarily, and he could've sworn that the side of the mountain looked a trifle dented...and oh! there was smoke coming from the dent now. Definitely smoke. Whatever that caused the BANG was evidently rather hot. Thag fervently hoped that there wouldn't be a forest fire. They had barely escaped the last one. Thus reminded of his people, he broke his reverie and looked around for his prey. 

The aurochs had evidently shared his annoyance, because it was presently more than a hundred meters away and increasing that figure at a fair clip. It would be quite impossible for Thag, whose species was built for endurance running and not for competing with quadrupeds in maximum attainable speed, to catch him now. He sighed in annoyance and set off towards the mountain. Maybe, just maybe, the heat had killed something and he could take that back home.

Thag was a pretty fair representative of his species. A hairy, stocky build that was ideal for hunting and long marches through the cold, hands with opposable thumbs that could grip sticks (and other things) with an ease that would have given his ancestors quite the turn, and a low, but almost globular braincase within which slumbered the potential for world domination (not that Thag knew that). His people were nomadic hunter-gatherers, and had the distinction of being the first Earthly species to cross the Broca barrier - they had a primitive language system that could convey basic information and representations. In his tool-vine he had tied a sharpened piece of flint, which possessed a wicked edge that made short work of animal hide, and in his hands he wielded a stick with a menacing-looking pointy bit at the end: the first iteration of the spear, a weapon that would dominate the battlefields of Earth for thousands of years to come. Thag was, if he might say so himself, the quintessential working-class Paleolithic man.

Thag made it to the mountain in good time. His fears of forest fire had been quite unfounded, there wasn't even a measly amount of flame to be seen. There was, however, a fair amount of smoke, and the smell of burnt-stone (cordite?) in the air. Thag's eyes, used to the fresh Alpine air, were watery with irritation and he almost fell into the depression in the ground. For a moment he was so busy trying to regain his lost footing and not embarrasing himself in front of the ancestors (for, of course, they kept watch over even the most incompetent), that he almost failed to notice the _thing_. 

It was sitting there, quite peacefully, in the middle of the clearing. Thag looked at it. It looked back at him. Thag coughed. It didn't quite copy him this time, though it did seem to bob its head in a sympathetic manner. Thag flinched, shuffled slightly, and finally just settled on staring dumbly. It didn't react, and in fact, looked rather bored. And then it disappeared.

Thag continued staring. Tall, winged serpents, bored-looking or not, are usually not terribly likely to vanish suddenly, and yet, there had been none of the usual serpentine hissing and slithering that one would have expected. Thag was still staring. He noticed that there was a rather small rock embedded in the ground, roughly where the serpent had been sitting. Curiosity, a hallmark of his race, began to gnaw at him, compelled him to go forward and examine the rock, but caution proved to be made of sterner stuff. The serpent could still be around, and it would not do to get eaten because of a rock. Thag stayed.

He stayed for about an hour. The serpent, evidently, did not feel like making an appearance, so Thag cautiously decided to creep forwards towards the rock. As he approached it, the hair on the back of his neck (and indeed, in many other places) stood, and he felt a curious but not-yet-unpleasant tingling feeling. He reached the rock. It was twisted and malformed from the heat, but it had a distinctive slate greyish colour that looked quite unlike the soil around it. He picked it up. There was a brief jolt, and then...nothing.

Thag turned the rock every which way in his hands. There was no doubt about it, the strange tingly feeling was definitely coming from it.  